Harshit Malhotra                                                               

                                      58 Robinson Ave, Scarborough, ON M1L 3T1

                    Email:mailharshit9418@gmail.com| Phone no: +1 647 860-1643 
                        LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/harshit-malhotra-494b1815a

         Git: https://github.com/specter27

    Website: https://specter27.github.io/portfolio/index.html



PERSONAL HIGHLIGHTS

       

Enthusiastic for learning and solving problems

Can analyse the big task in to small manageable tasks

Detail oriented & excellent problem solver

Ability to perform independently as well as a team player

Service-oriented individual with strong client/customer handling skills.

Developing RESTful API.

Debugging and unit testing with Postman 

Working Knowledge of various VCS (Github and Gitlab). 


TECHNICAL SKILLS  



Programming Languages: Swift, Java, C , Groovy, JavaScript & Typescript.

Mobile Technologies:   IOS, Android

Frameworks:  Angular, Spring, Grails & React-Native 
UI Toolkits: Angular Bootstrap, Angular Material & Nebular.

Web Technologies:  HTML 5, CSS,  Bootstrap & AJAX.

Databases: MySQL, SQLite, Firebase & MongoDB.

Tools: Visual Studio, IntelliJ, Android Studio, XCode, WebStorm.


PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE 



Software Developer (Co-op)                                                             September 2022 - December 2022
Royal Bank of Canada | Toronto, Ontario

Understanding the BRD for designing & developing the internal application for the IT&S.

Developed various dashboards screens for displaying the tabular information having crucial functionalities like (Filtering, Searching & Pagination) for Trade-Capture application using Angular.

Integrating & configuring various third party as well as internal libraries into the application.

Writing the testing scripts to perform end-to-end testing using the JEST framework.

Experienced with RBC internal tools like helios, Innersource library & RIG Design & confluence

Utilising Jenkins for performing the CI/CD process of  the application


Frontend Developer                                                                                      August 2021 - November 2021

Sudofire Technologies | Gurugram, Haryana

Designing Pages using HTML,Bootstrap & CSS 

API integration using AJAX.

Building Websites & implementing updates as per the client requirement

Knowledge of QA testing for IOT devices handling web platforms.





Junior Software Developer                                                                                    June 2020 - March 2021

Wizpanda Techno solutions | Pune, Maharastara

Prepared & Streamlined various features of e-commerce hybrid applications.

Implementing various RESTful API’s using Grails. 

Designing the frontend using Angular. 

Building hybrid mobile apps using Ionic. 

Maintained various AWS services (EC2 and S3) for the applications .



EDUCATION



Post Graduate Diploma in Cloud Computing Technologies, George Brown College  (Jan 2023 – August 2023) 

Post Graduate Diploma in Mobile Application Development and Strategy, George Brown College (Jan 2022 – Jan 2023) 

Bachelor of Technology computer science & engineering (Specialisation: Cyber Security and Forensics) -University of petroleum and energy studies (2016 –2020) 



PROJECTS




Pharmacy Task Management Application (PharmaEye)                                                           June 2022

This is a mobile application(Android) using which users(Pharmacy-Employee) can Add|View |Update Patients Information after successfully logging in to the app and can also Search for specific patients.

Implemented features to perform Create | Update | Remove operations on the prescriptions associated with the patients, view the patient address on Map & managing data persistence layer using Firebase( Firestore).


Restaurant Reservation Application (Get My Table)                                                                  May 2022

This is a mobile application(IOS) using which users can get access to the list of all the available restaurants for which they can make table reservations after successfully logging in to the app, managing data persistence layer using Firebase( Firestore).

Built functionality for bookings & cancelling the restaurant reservations associated with the users and also for updating the profile details .



Travel activity application                                                                                                               April 2022

This is a mobile application(IOS) using which users can get access to the list of all the available travel activites for the city after successfully logging in to the app.

Using this app users can create book tickets for different activities out of the listed one’s & booked tickets will be stored for those users in a list, users can also cancel the booking for the activities.



  Search for Love Game                                                                                                                     March 2022

This is a command line game application (using Swift) in which the player takes on the role of a hero named Hugie who has to search for Princess Astrid at different locations and follow the game instructions to clear each location.

Implemented algorithm for generating a unique map each time a user starts the game.


Online learning application                                                                                                    February 2022

This is a mobile application(Android) using which users can get the access of all the available video tutorials which are being provided after logging in to the app.

The app also allows the user to create separate notes for every tutorial while watching that will be stored for that user's future use.

							

      Word Guessing Game 						                         January 2022

This is a command line game application (using Java) in which the player has to guess the
 missing alphabets for the provided random words at different game levels using the limited chances that they were provided at each level.



Password protection vault                                                                                                          March 2017

This is a command line application (using C language) which  provides a secure way to store various crucial details(passwords & pins) of users. By using cryptographic techniques developed the encryption mechanism to achieve the aim.